Hi.
So... Fists or knives?
It's the end of the season.
It seems like a long year. but.
you know. it's a short season
- up there.
- Yeah.
But what an awesome year to be mining.
Prices are good.
I know.
You're finding some gold?
That's good.
Well. how much have you got?
We just hit 10.
I can't have you finding more than us.
That's a lot of gold. That's a lot of gold.
That's impressive.
Shooting for 1.800. and
we're about 400 ounces
short right now.
Well. I mean. as of right now.
Is Tony trying to buy you out?
Offer. yeah.
He came and visited me.
Well. see. the difference
between Tony and I
is Tony really likes to do good deals.
and I love doing bad deals.
So. if you are ever serious
about selling. give me a call.
Not to try to invade your
guys' deal. but ground is hard to
find. and it's worth a
huge premium right now.
There's a lot of people that say. "well".
"you know. the nice thing about
this business is it's not competitive."
- The three of us know it is.
- -Yeah.
- It was good to see you. man.
- Absolutely.
- Have a good fall.
- Yeah. you too.
Enjoy your winter if I don't see you again.
Yeah. You too.
I figured Tony was having
a good year. but I didn't think
it was gonna be that good.
He's a bit ahead of me.
But...
We'll see what happens.
Those guys are killing it on the gold.
And. you know. and the offers. it's...
it's good to know there's options there.
I don't know what to do.
It's going to come down to my total.
If I hit my goal this year.
I feel like just selling out
is not the way I want to go.
But you never know.
Money talks. and results
speak for themselves.
We've had a hell of a season gold-wise.
We've hit our goal.
The big priority now is just
getting every last ounce we can
while prices are like this.
Yeah. it's pretty cool.
31-year-old mining mogul
Parker schnabel is running
through the finish line.
Gold prices are at an
absolute all-time high.
They hit $4.000 an ounce
today. which is very. very cool.
It's a good time to be gold mining
and have a lot of wash plants running.
We've got four wash plants running.
Parker is already breaking
records this season.
with over $40 million in gold banked.
But he's determined to catch
former mentor Tony beets.
who is leading by 120 ounces.
We've been on top for a long time.
It's getting cold. and who knows
how much longer we've got.
Frost will probably cut us
off from being able to keep
plants running.
But we're going to finish strong.
We'll give her one last
good push right now
and see what we come up with.
- Hey. guys.
- How's it going?
- Thanks for coming to join me.
- No worries.
What's going on?
I just wanted to give you guys
a little update on what needs to get done.
- What up?
- Where have you been?
I call a meeting. and you're late?
I'm just kidding.
For the final push. Parker's
depending on his top
lieutenants. Mitch blaschke.
Tyson Lee. and Brennan ruault.
Thank you for getting us to the end here.
- Hit our 10.000. right?
- Yeah.
- Like. sick.
- Pretty wild.
- No doubt.
- Yeah.
- What's the plan now?
I wanted just to make sure
that we finish strong here.
Like. despite. you know.
we hit the goal. but Tony.
this spring. told me that his
goal was. like. 6.000 or 7.000.
and he's over 10.000.
Wow.
And you know me well enough
to know how much I hate losing.
So I think you really have
to turn your feed rates up
and all that jazz.
That's mandatory.
At dominion. I mean. we
need to get those pay piles
hammered out.
Yeah. they're still pretty big.
And Mitch. keep Roxanne running.
And that stripping
project is the main priority.
And Brennan. just
whatever these guys need.
Yep.
There's not a lot of tolerance
for screw-ups or delays.
If there's ever a time to
push extra late. now's the time.
Yeah.
I would just go until either
the weather shuts us down
or every plant's out
of pay. one of the two.
- Thank you. guys.
- Thank you.
At Parker's flagship dominion claim.
Tyson must sluice the
last of the golden mile's
stockpiled pay.
through wash plants big
red and golden goose...
And with Bob in the bridge cut.
mine as much of the remaining
30 acres as possible.
Ten miles south. at Parker's
leased ground. Ken and Stuart's.
Mitch must run the pay
from the last two acres of pit 2
and remove the final four
acres of worthless overburden.
from a new cut for next season...
All before winter freezes them out.
Right now. we're at
26 on our adjuster here.
All of a sudden. you put that at 40.
Look at how fast that
dirt's coming off that belt.
I've got the yardage cranked
as fast as Roxanne can
there's so much to do here
to finish off the sluicing we
have to do. plus get all that
mud removed for next season.
Remotely close to
possible. but I'm going to try.
This year. my workload
has pretty much tripled.
It's been a struggle at times.
Right now. at golden goose.
we've increased the feed rate
to 250 yards an hour. which only puts
more pressure on us.
The weather's going to
really start freezing on us
any day now.
And I know everyone wants to
go home. but you can't go home
until this pile is complete.
Are you ready?
Good. good.
Yeah.
Ok. let's go.
Time to shut her down. Dylan.
Tony beets' gold fever is relentless.
After blasting past his
season target. he now has
a new goal locked in his
sights. secure his crown
as king of the klondike.
To stay ahead of Parker.
Tony is matching his former
protégé's four-plant final push.
At his paradise hill
operation. Tony has tasked
son Mike with finishing stockpiles at
his trommel and Harald wash plants.
Sluice-a-lot and find-a-lot.
are in the 46-acre corner cut.
But after two months of nonstop
running. the mammoth cut only
to keep both sluicing. Tony
needs to move sluice-a-lot
upstream. back to where he
started the season at a new
three-acre extension of his early bird cut.
Everything is hooked
up. Everything is ready.
And off we go.
So far. so good.
Plant is following good.
A couple of corners.
A couple of hills.
Nothing we haven't done
before. but we still got to get on it
and make it work.
Stakes are extra high
with the price of gold
at the new early bird extension.
Tony's crew run full throttle
to get the cut ready
before sluice-a-lot arrives.
There is a bit of a race
this season between
Tony and Parker to.
I'm team Tony all the
way. I mean. of course.
I wouldn't say that Tony's going to keep
that title this year.
I'd say Parker's going to win that one.
He's going to have it in the bag.
Up here where we're
dumping. it's super soft.
and we're almost getting stuck.
But we've got to get it done.
We've got to get sluicing.
They're moving sluice-a-lot.
Tony's going to be pissed.
Rock truck driver Scott easley
has flipped his box at Tony's
early bird cut extension.
The bank gave way.
and then the thing just slowly went.
I tried to put it into drive and get going.
and it was too late.
So I get there on the
radio. another rock truck flip.
We can't afford any more downtime.
Winter is coming. and
we want to get to that gold
as soon as possible.
You'll take the hoe over?
Ok. copy. Tony.
So the new pad is in sight.
The road ahead looks pretty good.
Sorry. Tony.
Thank god I ain't fired.
It's sluice-a-lot in here.
Climb up this last little hill.
We're on the path.
I just gotta make sure
to get as close to the end
as possible.
There we go.
Tony gave me the sign that it's good.
I'll fire the plant up. and
we'll be back to sluicing.
All right. we've got the thumbs up.
Off we go.
Tony is back to four
plants running in his push.
I think it'd be hard for Parker to compete.
I think everyone who works here
has seen how much we've moved
this season. and we have no doubt Tony
is the king of the klondike.
There's quite a bit of pressure right now.
We're still hauling
overburden and trying to
get into pay as quick as we can.
This is one of the worst
spots I've ever been in.
We got to get back on that gold.
And we got to do it quick. I
know the guys are nervous.
I'm nervous.
Winter will soon
freeze all the miners out.
It's been a tough year.
There's no doubt about it.
These guys have fought through
a lot that we shouldn't
have to fight through.
We're 420 ounces shy of our goal yet.
And that's a lot. That's
a lot of ounces to get.
And we don't have a
whole lot of time to do it.
In a chaotic season of
uncertainty and major missteps.
Rick gambled a million dollars
mining a massive new cut.
only to get no gold.
That was a big debacle. a
huge waste of money and time.
People are hoping that I'm panicking.
The vultures are circling right
now. but I'm not panicking yet.
I've been offered a
seven-figure amount for this.
and it's a lot. It's tough to ignore.
Maybe it's time to go.
But if we hit our goal or get
past it. and then the profits
can continue to get
better. why would I leave?
Now. as Rick's crew fight
to dig out the final 10 feet to
hit pay in the last chance cut.
he's got a risky hail Mary plan
to get more gold fast.
It's going to be a fight.
But with these guys all in
on it. I know we can get it.
- What's going on. guys?
- What's going on?
What's up?
I just want to thank you guys.
You guys have been doing a hell of a job.
That being said. I know you're
all tired from it and giving it
all you've got. but we're
still a way off from our target.
and that would be devastating for sure.
The gold will be in that
dirt. for sure. but I think
it's gonna come right
down to the bitter end.
We're running out of time. so
I think we need to give a little
more. and I think we need
to get back to lightning creek.
One last push down there.
Yeah. that gold wasn't
that good to begin with.
Yeah. but it was picking up at the end.
What if we do another clean
out here and we're short?
If we pull another 50 ounces
from there. I mean. that's big.
I mean. you guys gotta
stay. get monster red running.
that's the priority.
but we need everything we can get.
The way it's set up down there.
you know. we could get going
we're almost at the end.
and let's just push a little
harder and we'll be there. right?
- Yep.
All right.
Early in the season.
Rick bought new ground
at lightning creek.
- Let's do it.
- All right.
After a shaky start.
the gold improved.
50.4.
Yeah. that's way better than last time.
Then a six-month license
extension to mine Duncan creek
came in.
We got our water license.
- Yeah.
- Yeah!
Rick abandoned lightning creek.
Shut down lightning creek.
We're moving back to Vegas valley.
Sounds good to me. man.
Now he wants to squeeze
another 50 ounces from
lightning creek to help
get him over the line.
I hope this move is going
to be worth it in lightning.
but we won't know until
we start running some dirt.
If we do reach that 1.800.
my mind's going to be blown
because with all the
struggles we've had this year.
Since I've joined Rick.
it's always been a push.
it's always been a gamble.
And in Rick fashion. we
are swinging for the fence
again at the end of the year.
While the stripping crew battle on.
Sluice a leftover pay
pile with wash plant rocky.
Everything should be good to go.
We got enough pay up there right now
to start up the plant.
All right. let me give
this thing a shot here.
Come on. you old girl!
Here we go. Let's do it.
We got water. we got power.
and the shaker deck's moving.
so time to throw some
dirt at it. get some gold.
All right.
Here we go.
Hell yeah.
Rocky sluicing. Rick is
one step closer to pulling off
his double plant plan and banking
the 420 ounces he needs.
You gotta be kidding me.
What happened?
Well. look at this. It's still smoking.
Well.
I don't know.
At lightning creek. the
feed pump for Rick ness's
pump blew a belt.
That's the belt that
drives the cooling system.
That's why the thing's smoking.
because it's overheating.
This tensioner should not be that loose.
That's what holds
tension on the belt. right?
So when it's loose. it
just hops. hops. hops.
and that belt just rips.
And then it stopped
cooling. so then it overheated.
This thing's just shot to hell.
She's toast.
Rick's desperate push to
get two plants running is over
before it even started.
Very quick. very
catastrophic end to the day.
Got half a bucket through that thing.
I mean. that's not even
worth getting out of bed for.
Now. his only hope for 420 ounces
and getting monster red sluicing.
Well. that's a pretty sad showing.
The last chance cut.
that's what we have to do.
The gold will be there.
It's just whether or not we can get at it.
Well. hopefully it's enough.
The overarching theme for me
is doing everything we can to find
as much gold as we can.
100 miles west.
with four wash plants
going full tilt. Parker is within
striking distance of Tony's gold haul.
It puts a huge amount
of pressure on keeping
wash plants running.
It just consumes my thoughts now.
Golden goose and big red
power through the
pay piles at a combined
season Max of 500 yards an hour.
Doing pretty good down here at big red.
Do my best to get
through as much as I can.
What the is going on up here?
Yeah.!
My shaker deck shut off.
You.
Whoo. I'm out of breath.
The shaker deck stopped.
Nothing's working.
Alec. Liam. do you got a copy?
Yeah. go ahead.
Hey. man. my shaker deck
shut off. and I need you guys
up here right now.
Ok. yeah. we're on our way.
Thanks. buddy.
Me.
I'm sick of this.
The cavalry's arrived.
We replaced the motor a
couple months ago. so that should
still be good.
Holy!
When was the last
time this was opened?
I think the feed conveyor is
the shaker now. because that's
- the motor wires there.
- What?
I'm imagining the shaker
contact or malfunctioned
or broke. and that's why
we're running this backup
- feed conveyor one.
- It's been hours.
Now this guy has probably failed.
What's going on. guys?
We're not able to get
the shaker motor going.
- Seriously?
- Yeah.
Something in our contact
breaker's malfunctioning.
It's not letting power
go from here to here.
Can't sluice without it.
- Well. - do you guys think we have one?
- No.
We don't have any replacement
parts or any contactors that.
I'll go and find Parker.
We can't go home until
the golden mile is sluiced.
Without big red. I don't
think it's gonna happen.
Parker's not gonna be happy.
- How's it going?
- What's going on?
Big red's contact or.
essentially the starter
for the shaker deck. just the bed.
There's no real solution for it.
We don't have one?
No.
And with the weather the way it is.
if we lose the night. we're screwed.
I'll get one as quick as we can.
I'm gonna have to hunt
down Jack. so I'll get him
- in the air.
- Ok.
And we'll have one by the end of the day.
Maybe.
But if it doesn't look like we
can get one tonight. then...
Frost fighters on the sluice runs.
Good. it's a nightmare. All right.
To white horse. it's a
seven. eight-hour drive
each way.
Jack's an hour and a half
to white horse and an hour
like this.
Parker owns a cessna 172
and employs a pilot full time.
Jack fills his time
when he's not flying with
running an excavator.
and he is right here.
Big red's down for some electrical part.
- Yeah.
- Ok. perfect.
Time is of the essence.
Can you spin up there now?
- Sure.
- Perfect.
I'll try to get down to
white horse. grab that part
and get back up as fast as I can.
We'll get it slammed in and get
the plant back up and running.
If we don't get it back here
tonight. we're in trouble.
- Is that enough?
- Yeah.
We got to run a little bit of water.
The gold might shift a bit.
but we can't let big red freeze right now.
Parker schnabel's big red is down with
an electrical failure.
If it doesn't fire up before
nightfall. it will freeze.
This is about the worst time big red
could have the bed on us.
Hopefully Jack can get
us the part here in no time.
Parker's crew are praying
for a replacement part to be.
Guess we play the waiting game now.
- Is that an airplane right here?
- I think so.
Is that Jack?
Yeah. Jack!
There we go!
- You got the goods?
- Got the goods.
- Hopefully that's the right one.
- Sick.
Thank you. Jack. I'll see you later.
- You're a lifesaver.
- Thank you.
- Man.
- Woo!
- He's got it.
- Our savior.
- That's awesome.
- Wicked.
- Thank you so much.
- No worries.
Let me know when you
get it back up and running.
- Yeah. buddy.
- Definitely.
All right. Thanks. guys.
Let's get this new guy hung
and see if we can get this
- plant shaking again.
- Perfect.
This is so crusty.
Don't break anything.
Ok.
- That's our new part installed.
- Sweet.
Yeah. let's do it.
Moment of truth here.
See what happens.
- Ok.
- Yeah.
It's a beautiful sight. isn't it?
Parker was able to pull it off.
So all we have to do is
finish off the last bit of pay
and go home.
If everything does go belly up.
I can actually hear
Tony. "sucks to be you."
Though I think deep down.
even if they don't say it.
they'd be pretty heartbroken
that I wasn't able to make it happen.
While dad Tony battles for
mining supremacy. eldest son
Kevin beets is in deep trouble.
What separates me from Tony is just
more planning and foresight.
less smashy-smashy.
But Tony did pull out
10.000 ounces this year.
so he's doing something right.
His equipment and only wash plant.
But low risk has delivered low
rewards. leaving Kevin nearly
800 ounces short of
his 2.000-ounce goal.
That's a big number for us.
because we need that to come
back next year.
That covers all our costs.
that gets us enough to get
started next year. and
if we don't have that.
we're running on fumes.
So. we're going to fight.
and we're going to make it happen.
Let's turn the up.
Look at it flying in there.
Kevin's hail Mary plan?
Turn up his wash plant speed
for the first time this season.
from 100 to 150 yards per hour
winter freezes him out.
Hopefully. that'll put us on
the fast track to 2.000 ounces.
We got it turned up.
Chelsea march keeps
pace with the turned-up plant.
We've got a pretty big
pay pile to get through.
I don't know if we're going
to have enough time to run all
this pay through before the
end of the season. honestly.
So. yeah. we just have to
sluice as much as we possibly
can and run through this pay.
Looks like we've lost water to the plant.
Hey. Tyler. there's no water at the plant.
I'm going to shut it down.
Yeah. the pump's smoking.
The pump's smoking.
That is a lot of smoke
coming out of there right now.
I shouldn't have touched that.
Ha-ha!
What the?
Don't touch that either. That's also hot.
Well...
So our return fuel lines. and it looks like
the injectors. too.
Kevin's last-ditch plan has backfired.
His pump's water pressure
to deal with the extra dirt.
The added workload has blown
the pump's fuel lines and injectors.
Until we can fix it. find a
replacement or something.
And so close to the end.
I can't stop now. though.
That she do.
Because yeah. if not.
well. that's it. We're done.
Hey. faith.
Hey. How's it going?
The pump has basically
gone ker... blewey.
Ok.
And you... I'm guessing you can't fix it.
I know the last time we
tried to get similar parts.
it was at least a two-week venture. so...
And with the time we
have left. I don't think that's
gonna work.
Or we could try asking
Tony. seeing what he says.
Yeah. don't really like
to go back to the old man.
I'd rather we fail on our own
than just keep getting help.
It is close to the end of the season.
Yeah. yeah.
I'll reach out to a
couple miners that I know
around the area.
- To get on that and.
- Ok.
- And best of luck. mams.
- You as well.
Sucks.
I really hope she can pull
something out of the ether.
Able to come back. I'm a bit worried.
This is Kevin's dream.
This is our dream to
run a business ourselves.
And hopefully we get to
keep on with this dream.
So. I got my fingers crossed.
At scribner creek.
Kevin's fight for survival.
- Yes.
- I assume we're first in line.
Yes.
Well. at least we have to
run right now to go get it.
- Hell?
- All right.
Ok. I'm guessing you're going
to go deal with the money part?
- Yes.
- I should go grab it?
Yes.
All right. sounds good. Let's do that.
New pump on site.
Kevin tasks buzz legault...
with lifting the old one out
and new one into position.
All right. let's fire it up.
I can see it from here. We got water.
Means pump is working.
She's flowing all the way over there.
Listen how nice that sounds.
Very nice.
Back to getting some gold.
Yeah. Ho!
Beauty!
Hello. hello?
- It's running again.
- Yay!
My god.
Faith. did good finding that
pump... it's running lovely.
We can finally get
through our pay mountain.
Plant's all turned up.
I think it's a good day.
About time.
In the last chance cut. the
ness crew have finally hit
pay and now must sluice nonstop
to have any hope of reaching
their 1.800-ounce goal.
We're way too close to the
end of the season to be sitting at
400 and some ounces shy of our goal.
It's gonna come down
right to the last day.
Just go right on top.
The crew hustle to
build a stockpile in time
to fire up for night shift.
There it is.
There's some good-sized
boulders. which is a good sign.
There's normally good gold.
Gold in it to reach our goal.
- This rock looks good.
- It does. actually.
The weather's moving
in. so it's going to be pretty
important once this plant fires
up that we don't stop running
this plant.
- She's chilly.
- She is.
Six hours after hitting pay.
there's finally enough
stockpiled pay to fire up.
She's frosty.
Yeah. the carpets are hard.
Ain't going to thaw until we get fired up.
Nope.
Boy. she sounds cold.
It's time.
Rick better get his night shift ready.
That ain't shutting off.
You ready for this. buddy?
Yeah.
Everything's fueled.
everything's topped off.
so I think you guys are
ready to rock and roll. man.
- Thanks again.
- All right. brother.
Thanks. Kyle.
Get the out of here for the night.
- All right. you ready?
- Let's do it. buddy.
Rick and zee step up
to work through the night
so the exhausted crew
can get some sleep.
We've got no choice right now.
We've gotta run the
wheels off everything
if we want to get to 1.800 ounces.
then running a night shift
is the way we gotta do it.
Hey. Rick. you got a copy?
Yeah. go ahead.
I'll tell you what.
it's more stressful doing it at night.
It's really hard to see.
I've been told I do my best
work in the dark. but. like.
I don't know about this.
This is zee's last shift
before he heads home for the season.
It sucks going home this early.
I'm just stressed at home.
We haven't hit our goal yet.
So if you have pay laying on the ground.
Hey. Rick. you got a copy?
Dude. this whole feeder's piled up.
I don't know why it stopped.
Something got caught in there.
There's two flat rocks just
jammed in here on the side.
It is loose now.
You can see all the flat ones here. too.
- Look. that got through.
- I know.
I think that's it.
Let's give her.
It ain't spinning.
The belt. it ain't spinning.
Yeah.
The head drum's spinning.
but it's not catching the belt.
Can't get traction.
At Duncan creek. the
feed conveyor on Rick's
monster red wash plant has
failed to fire up in the cold.
Maybe I'll just heat that up.
Thanks. buddy.
This is the head drum.
This is what turns.
It's really cold. so when
rubber gets cold. it gets hard.
and it's just not catching.
I should just be able
to add some heat to it.
warm it up. It should get some traction.
Just shutting it down like this is a killer.
That should do it.
Should be warm enough to get going.
We'll see.
Good. Here we go.
- Ready?
- Yeah. hit it.
She's moving.
We're good.
Yeah. Good to go. buddy.
If you don't laugh. it's just
going to make you crazy.
Love it. buddy.
Thank you. Nice job.
There's always something
happening. especially
this time of year.
And we're going to stay that way.
But we've got a long ways to go.
Mike. do you have a copy. Mike?
Someone calling for me?
Yeah. Mike. we're all done with the pay.
We just put the last bucket
through for the season.
Yes.
Yeah. yeah. I'll do that.
Sounds like a plan. dad.
Putting the king a plant down
in his battle to beat Parker.
Tony heads back to Indian river
to keep his two shaker
decks on the gold.
leaving youngest son
Mike at paradise hill to finish
producer. the trommel.
The end is nigh.
I'm looking forward to
being done for the year.
because I am tired.
But I'm going to have to
run this 24 hours a day to get
through all the pay I got.
I want to go out with
lots of gold. you know.
go out with a bang. as it were.
- Copy. Mike.
- Yeah. go ahead.
Yeah. the distributor is spinning.
I need you over here now.
You shut her down.
I'll be there in a second.
Copy.
I mean. I really don't need
no big problems today.
What the kind of idjit...?
Look at this.
Just look at this.
Ho-ho-ho-holy!
The whole thing is full of big rocks.
That completely
jammed up my distributor.
Man. This is a serious up.
The trommel filters
gold from worthless dirt.
throwing the waste tailings
out the back of its barrel.
Overnight. these tailings have
built up. spilling into a chute
that feeds the plant's distributor box.
The spinning pipes that should
evenly spread the gold-rich
slurry into the sluice runs
below have clogged up.
eventually blocking the whole distributor.
To clear the system. Mike
needs to remove the rock jam
of gold-rich pay dirt.
There's a ton of rocks. big rocks.
as you can see coming out.
It's a long and painful process of just
getting in there and pulling it out.
As far as the trommel
goes. it's the biggest up
I've ever seen.
Halfway through his day
shift. Mike has enough cleared
to open up the bypass and
flush the rest of the rocks
and the gold-rich pay dirt.
Love to hear that.
Turn on the distributor. please.
It's!
He says it's.
He went like this and said it's.
The motor's fried.
Kill it.
At paradise hill. after
clearing a rock jam in.
You.
And only days of sluicing left.
Whoa!
It's a little on the crispy side.
Rock got caught. and it
jammed the. it stopped
and the motor couldn't turn.
Unable to turn the distributor.
the motor burnt itself
out and needs replacing.
I got a motor here.
Hopefully we don't have
any problems with this one.
Ok. gentlemen. we're going
to start putting it back together.
Everybody in the hole.
I could be sluicing tonight.
That's if everything goes right.
But considering how my
luck's been going with this plant.
I'm probably going to find
about eight little problems.
Ok. you're good to go.
Once it warms. fire it up
and just turn on the distributor.
It works good.
Turn the sluice box on.
There it is.
- Hey-got her working again.
- Awesome.
After eight hours shut down.
Mike has the beets' family
empire back to running
three plants for the final push.
- Yeah.
- Good job. man.
That's all I can say.
Unfortunately. I'm experienced in it.
The temperatures
are well below freezing.
I was hoping to be in a better
place than we are right now.
but it is what it is.
We still got pay dirt here.
and we've got a cut that
needs to be down to gravel
if we're going to get
it sluiced next season.
At Ken and Stuart's.
Parker has foreman Mitch
running night shift to help him
beat Tony. and Mitch wants to
finish ahead of schedule.
I'm trying to make it home in
time for my daughter's birthday.
and for that to happen.
I've got to have everything
here finished tonight and be
on the road first thing in the morning.
Got quite a bit of pay here to get through.
I'm not a real big fan of the night shifts.
but it's stuff we all got to do. you know?
Of the pay pile through
wash plant Roxanne.
And in the cut. Mitch and Brennan.
in two d11 dozers. must
remove the final acre of
a four-foot-deep layer of mud...
then rip through the
frozen pay layer beneath
to allow it to thaw.
We're just going to have
to push through and get it all
done as fast as we can here.
This is it.
We got to make her happen tonight.
I appreciate you
putting in the extra hours
to help me get all this done.
Man. I couldn't be happier
to help you. my friend.
I'm hoping to be able to get
home for my daughter's birthday
in time.
How old is she turning this year?
Dude. gonna be six already.
Feels like two years ago when I
was racing home to be
there when she was born.
Yeah. man. seeing how
old pistol is now. dude.
it's hard not to get sad and
look back on all the days
that I missed him being
a young kid. you know?
But I've always been able
to block it out of my mind
pretty good while I'm up here.
You don't need to lie.
saying that you block things
out of your mind there.
I know there's not
much up there anyway.
Come on. baby. Come on.
Come on. come on. come on. come on.
Yeah. buddy. we're rolling it down.
A lot of horsepower
side by side here. Mitch.
Buddy. there it is. Look at that pile of dirt.
I'm starting to see some
gravel here kicking up.
Hell yeah!
Right on. buddy!
Mud removed. Mitch and Brennan
use the d11's powerful rippers.
You got to be kidding
me! Come on. man!
We are so close to having
this done. but that tooth is not
going to make it through the rest of this.
At Ken and Stuart's. Mitch
blaschke's mission to rip
a frozen cut by morning
has ground to a halt.
You can see here. this is our ripper tooth.
When you're ripping in this
gravel. it's so abrasive that
this last little bit that's
left here. that'll be gone in
a couple of pushes.
We're going to rip down
and grab a new tooth.
We'll be able to finish
this out with one more.
If the tooth is left to
wear down any further.
the ripper shank will be damaged.
The sun's starting to come up.
We don't got a lot of time left.
We've got some spare parts up top.
Let's go have a look.
We're going to rip down.
throw it on that dozer.
and get back out there.
You ready?
All right. let's get back out there.
- We're about out of time.
- Sounds good.
Yeah. buddy. here we go.
Back in action.
Just got to get this last
little bit ripped. we're going
to have this thing done.
Well. Brennan. I'm
seeing lots of rock in this.
I think this is exactly
where we need to be.
We've got this cut down
on gravel for next season
here at Ken's.
Well. buddy. we did it.
Yeah. nice work. brother.
Man. what a project.
dude. What a season.
It's been a hell of a year
working with you. man.
Yeah. man. it's been a fun year.
I gotta get down and check on Roxanne.
You never know what the
weather's gonna do up here
in the Yukon.
It's our first snowfall for the season.
Hopefully this doesn't
hang around for long.
It's such a good feeling
here to be at the finish line.
Here comes the boss now.
- What's happening?
- Well. you know.
- Beautiful day?
- Yeah.
- We knew it was coming.
Hopefully it doesn't hang out for too long.
for it to burn off.
- It's gonna be a nice day.
- Yeah.
Well. it looks like you're about done.
You don't have much of a pile left.
yeah. it's shrinking pretty quick.
Stripping is done. so we made it.
Sweet. You've done your tour of duty.
You've had a hell of a season. Mitch.
- Thank you.
- Good job. man.
Thanks. dude. Appreciate it.
It's just so awesome
to see what we've
accomplished this season.
But the best part is now.
it's time to go home. and I can
spend some time with my family.
He's done an incredible
job. but regardless of that.
There's just a few scoops left.
The ness crew have been
running last chance pay through.
You know. I'm pretty confident
that we'll get a good clean out
on this. but will it be
enough? I'm not sure.
Bonus. so I'm gonna cross my fingers.
We're out of pay. We gotta shut down.
That's it.
Shut it down.
With the last chance pay done.
Rick calls time on the season.
That's it.
Now we just got to hope
that the gold's in the box.
We got to weigh it up
and see where we end up.
After cleaning up the gold.
Rick's crew gather in the only
bar in keno for the make-or-break
final gold weigh of the season.
What a year.
A little stressful.
Yeah. this year was kind
of a around for us all year.
- Hello.
- What's going on. Rick?
You guys are all here waiting on me?
- Yeah.
- I got a present for you guys.
- You want a drink?
- Where's my drink? Yeah.
- Look at that.
- Thank you. sir.
Yeah. end of season.
We made it through
another one. though.
Cheers.
Time to find out if they've
banked enough gold to make
their bonus and secure their future.
or if it's time for Rick to sell up.
I don't ever want to start a
season like we did this year.
We were lucky to find
some ground this spring.
I mean. we got some gold out of it.
I think there's gold there.
It's definitely good for the future.
I don't know what you guys think about it.
but would you come
back for lightning creek?
I hate being that dude.
but that's a tough one
for me to come back to.
If we don't have a water
license for Duncan creek.
I'm gonna be honest. man. I'm in limbo.
Yeah. for sure.
I don't know what it looks like yet.
to be honest with you.
We're just trying to survive
this season at the moment.
Well. maybe we
should see what we got?
- Yeah.
- Let's do it.
I'm sure you're dying to know.
Right. we are.
To hit his 1.800-ounce goal.
Rick needs the last chance cut
to deliver 420 ounces.
All right. moment of truth.
10. 20. 30. 50. 60. 70. 80. 90.100.
131.91.
All right. there's a hundred.
There's another hundred.
That means 431.91.
That's it.
On that last one-week cleanup.
Worth over $1.727.000.
1.811.56.
That's so close. it's ridiculous.
Yeah!
- Yeah!
- Yes!
Nice job. guys.
That last chance paid off.
- It paid the off. it paid off.
- -Awesome.
- 100%.
- Yeah.
Rick's final total is
worth over $7.246.000.
That's awesome. isn't it?
Like. it looked bad
this season for a while.
but we're set. We got
everything we need.
And you guys get the
bonus you deserve.
So there's a bonus in every
one of these jars for you guys.
- Thank you.
You worked damn hard for it.
There's not a season that
we haven't been with you.
that we have not hit our total now.
Thanks so much.
It was hard-fought. a
lot of bull. there's some
uncertainty. but for now. we
hit 1.800 ounces. and we get
it was a hard season.
I did not think we were going to do it.
I'm ready to keep getting
gold. and I can't wait
till next year.
This was a close one.
We hit our goal. We
beat it by 11 ounces.
That's insanely close.
Right from the get-go. it
just had disaster written
all over it.
This industry. man. it beats it out of you.
Tony and Parker offered me
a lot of money for this ground.
I'm going to leave on my own
terms. and if Parker and Tony
are still offering when
that time comes. well. then
but we get through this year.
we can get through any year.
I think it's getting cold. Tony.
Our balls are almost freezing off.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah.
- We'd like to keep on going...
It's closing time
last bucket?
Yep. last bucket of
pay. We're finally done.
Yeah. so let's shut her down
- and then we got a full clean up.
- Yep.
And as Tony shuts down...
Big red. dead for the season.
Parker's crew also
called time on the season.
We're done!
- Good job.
- We did it.
That's a hell of a pit to get done.
Yeah.
When we started it. I didn't
think we'd get through it all.
I mean. the golden
mile was literally a mile.
Let's get a cleanup
done and see what's in it.
Whatever Tony's got. I want to get more.
It's time for a final gold
weigh shootout to see who is
the Yukon's top dog...
or klondike kingpin Tony beets.
Both have four plants to weigh.
with Tony just 120 ounces in the lead.
Hi. guys.
Hi. Monica.
- Before Tony's gold hits the scales...
- Hey! - Hello.
He wants to see where
his young pup has ended up.
Not very well.
Is that a surprise?
I know. that's the problem.
I think we're the same in that manner.
You're actually admitting you're.
Don't know.
That's why we brought our jars here.
Fingers crossed.
Kevin has three weeks
of running to weigh.
He needs nearly 800 ounces.
over double his best ever gold haul.
so. let's see what we've got.
Shut up.
10. 20. 40.
120. 150. 180. 189...
250. 260. 270. 300.
330. 350. 376... 376.16.
So how much was your total now?
It was 1.591.
Are you going to be
able to mine next year?
I mean. it's a good thing
the gold price is this high.
Starting next season
will be a little stressful.
Yeah. we get to come back next year.
Yay!
Wait. are you sure
you're happy about that?
Kevin finishes over
400 ounces below target.
but with record gold
prices. his 1.591-ounce haul
is still worth over 6.3 million dollars.
I'm personally happy to hear
that you guys are coming back
next year.
Thank you. thank you.
We should probably
weigh up some stuff.
Now for the main event...
So. Parker had a good season.
First up. find-a-lot's
gold from the corner cut.
where it's averaging 250 ounces a week.
140. 170. 200.
that's it?
Sluice-a-lot ran Tony's new
early bird cut extension that
earlier in the season
delivered 300 ounces a week.
210. 230. 240. 250. 266.96.
That's right.
That works.
To 10.681 ounces.
stretching his lead over Parker
by nearly 600 ounces.
You should do the hill stuff now?
As the king prepares his next gold pour.
ten miles away... Yo. yo.
Do you realize collectively
we have sluiced over 10.000
- hours this year?
- Yeah. we were busy.
I was just doing the numbers.
we sluiced 2 million yards.
Whoa.
I'd be surprised if Tony beats us.
Yep.
Ok. should we weigh some gold?
All right. let's do it.
This is Roxanne.
Which last week delivered 134 ounces.
60. 80...
And...
94.90.
- Not bad?
- Yeah.
The lone soul Bob.
Next. wash plant Bob with
the final bridge cut gold.
averaging 140 ounces a week.
70. 90...
103.75.
- Yeah.
- Not bad? Not bad.
- Triple digits.
- Yeah.
Parker's total is up to
10.288. clawing Tony's lead
down to less than 400
ounces. with the golden mile
still to weigh.
But the king is now ready
to tally up his final two plants.
- Start with Harald. Michael?
- Yep.
Harald has been running hester cut pay.
Last week. it brought in 130 ounces.
Let's go.
20. 30. 40. 50. 60. 70. 80.
90. 100. 110. 120. 130...
132.12.
All right. so we've got our last one.
Are you ready to be jealous?
Last up. Mike's trommel.
- Two.
- The monster plant's been
running paradise hill's white channel pay.
averaging 320 ounces a week.
Ready?
20. 30. 40. 50. 60.
70. 80. 90. 100. 110...
120. 130. 140. 150. 170.
180. 190. 200. 210. 240.
250. 260. 270. 280. 3.
320. 350. 370. 380. 390. 410.
417.36.
Hot damn!
That's amazing!
Our biggest season ever.
The beets finish with
a colossal season total
of 11.231 ounces. worth
a massive $45 million.
That was a good season. my friend.
Things fell in place.
Yeah.
Not me. I want to have a holiday first.
Tony walks away with a
record-shattering season
total. more than 940
ounces ahead of Parker.
Now. the young buck
needs a monster score
all righty. let's see how
the golden mile finished off.
Parker is combining his golden
goose and big red wash plants
into one final double pour.
Together. they ran the
end of the golden mile.
the richest cut Parker's
mined this season.
130. 180. 220. 240... Keeps coming?
260. 300...
307.95.
So where'd we end up?
This week. 506.6.
Our season total. 10.596.45 ounces.
I'm just gonna say 10.600.
I'm sure there's three extra
ounces in that safe somewhere.
Yeah. Well done. gentlemen.
- Well done.
- That's awesome.
Ten six.
Parker finishes 630 ounces behind Tony.
the now undisputed king of the klondike.
But his 10.600 ounces is still
Parker's biggest ever season
haul. worth $42 million.
We had a really good season.
You know. this last week. I think.
probably could have
pulled a little more gold out if
we didn't have as many
problems as we did.
But overall. you know. super solid year.
Parker is such a smart miner.
As I look back through the years from
a snot-nosed kid at 38
ounces for his first season to
10.000 ounces now. it's
amazing. just totally amazing.
We'll be back next
year and we'll hopefully
do even more.
And I'm ready to hunt for
the next big project. right?
Like.
the elephant gun is
loaded. and we need to find
where to go next.